WHAT IS os9disasm?
-----------

os9disasm is a disassembler for the Tandy Color Computer, primarily targeting
the Microware OS9 operating system, but also capable of disassembling Coco
Basic programs.  This program can be built on other systems (Linux, Windows,
and originally was designed to target OS9-68000 systems, but this has mostly
been abandoned).

The disassembler was inspired by a program called Dynamite+ written for the
OS9-68xx systems.  However, disassembly of a major program requires repeated
disassembly, adding commands, and re-disassembling.  The speed offered by
systems running faster processors makes the process much less tedious.

PACKAGE REQUIREMENTS
-----------

This package comes in two sections.  Os9disasm is the disassembler itself,
and is all that is really required.  With this, you have a command-line
disassembler.

For those who desire a GUI interface, the g09dis package is provided.  This
is simply a front-end for os9disasm, and is not required, but can no doubt
help bypass the learning curve a bit, as there are several command-line
options and such with which one must be familiar to get well-formatted
disassembly output.

The default configuration is to compile WITHOUT G09DIS.  To get
G09DIS to build, see below under "CONFIGURE OPTIONS".

To compile these sources, especially g09dis, specific packages must be
present. The Gtk2 package is a primary requirement.  GLib is also needed.
To build, the dev packages are needed, and to run, the runtime packages
are required.

To build in Windows, the current preferred method is to build under mingw
(msys2 includes it all).  The needed packages under this system correspond
to those for Linux.

To compile, package, untar the package file and cd into the top directory.
Run ./configure to build your Makefiles.

Both programs can be compiled simultaneously from the top Makefile, or you can
issue the command "make os9disasm" or "make g09dis" (if enabled) from the top
Makefile to make either program separately.  Alternatively, you can cd into the
individual directories and compile either program individually.  

CONFIGURE OPTIONS
--------

Issuing the command ./configure --help shows a brief summary of all options
available to configure.  Most of the options are standard configure options,
however, there are some extra options specific to this package:

  --with-g09dis[=OPTION]           where OPTION is either "yes" or "no".
          
	  The default is "no"  --with-g09dis by itelf is the same as including
	  the "yes" option.  --with-g09dis=no or the equivalent
	  --without-g09dis would simply be the default.  Note that if
	  --with-g09dis is specified, the package "pkg-config" must be
	  installed for configure to succeed.  This package should be available
	  with most linux distributions and for win32 apps under MinGW/msys, at
	  least, can be downloaded from Tor Lillqvist's download page.  (Go to
	  www.gimp.org or www.gtk.org and follow the links under "... for
	  Windows").

                            -------

BUILDING and INSTALLING DOCUMENTATION
--------

It was decided that documentation building and installing would not be
done automatically, because it might not be desirable for some people.

Therefore, at least for now, the documentation will be controlled by
a manually-created Makefile in the doc directory (os9disasm/doc).
Please read the README in that directory for information on how to
install.
